README.md, before:

# Fiction Addicts /Book Blog Management API Server

This project is a Node.js Express API server designed for managing book posts.

### Contributions

- [Julia](https://github.com/juliabaur)
- [Anne](https://github.com/AnneMerlyn)
- [Maksim](https://github.com/MaksimShupta)
- [Andrei](https://github.com/raizy21)

are maintainers for this repository.

## Prerequisites

Before running this server, ensure you have the following installed:

- [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git@github.com:MaksimShupta/FullstackBlog_backend.git
   cd FullstackBlog_backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## Running the Server

To start the server, run the following command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The server will start running at [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)

### Backend

- Set up a Node.js server using the built-in http module.
- Use the pg package to connect to your PostgreSQL database.
- Create the following endpoints for the posts resource:
- **GET /posts:** Retrieve all posts.
- **GET /posts/:id** Retrieve a single post by ID.
- **POST /posts:** Create a new post.
- **PUT /posts/:id** Update an existing post by ID.
- **DELETE /posts/:id:** Delete a post by ID

# Backend API

### GET /posts

##### Description: Retrieve all posts.

##### Response: A JSON array of all posts

### GET /posts/postId

##### Description: Retrieve a single post by ID.

##### Response: A JSON object of the post.

### POST /posts

##### Description: Create a new post.

##### Request Body: JSON object with post fields.

##### Response: The newly created post as a JSON object.

### PUT /posts/postId

##### Description: Update an existing post by ID.

##### Request Body: JSON object with post fields.

##### Response: The updated post as a JSON object.

### DELETE /posts/postId

##### Description: Delete a post by ID.

##### Response: A success message or the deleted post as a JSON object.

## API Documentation

The API endpoints are documented.Here’s how to access it:

## Configuration

Environment-specific configurations are set in `.env` file. This file is not available.

Create a new `.env` file, you may add the following variable the `DATABASE_URL` and `PORT` values.

## Database

We use [Neon](https://console.neon.tech/) with postgresql.

Set the following queries in [Neon](https://console.neon.tech/).

- CREATE TABLE posts (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  author VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  title VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  content VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  cover VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  date TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
  );

- DROP TABLE IF EXISTS posts;

## Dependencies

- [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) is a fast, minimalist web framework for Node.js that simplifies building APIs and web applications.
- [Dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) is a Node.js package that loads environment variables from a .env file into process.env for secure configuration management.
- [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) is a PostgreSQL client for Node.js that enables seamless interaction with PostgreSQL databases using JavaScript.

# Project Resources

- [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
- [The HTTP module](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/nodejs_http.asp)
- [Connecting to a Database](https://www.mongodb.com/de-de/lp/cloud/atlas/try4?utm_source=google&utm_campaign=search_gs_pl_evergreen_atlas_general_prosp-nbnon_gic-null_emea-de_ps-all_desktop_deu_lead&utm_term=datenbankverwaltungssystem&utm_medium=cpc_paid_search&utm_ad=p&utm_ad_campaign_id=20985229573&adgroup=156968602223&cq_cmp=20985229573&gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQiA2oW-BhC2ARIsADSIAWrwnUOL63cM-gkObt1ompuLqyqqanDpoQraGjsPKjr1hOkusCgz6UAaAtWqEALw_wcB)
- [pg Package Documentation](https://node-postgres.com/)

Commit message:

adding docs to connection db and type module

README.md, after:

# Fiction Addicts /Book Blog Management API Server

This project is a Node.js Express API server designed for managing book posts.

### Contributions

- [Julia](https://github.com/juliabaur)
- [Anne](https://github.com/AnneMerlyn)
- [Maksim](https://github.com/MaksimShupta)
- [Andrei](https://github.com/raizy21)

are maintainers for this repository.

## Prerequisites

Before running this server, ensure you have the following installed:

- [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git@github.com:MaksimShupta/FullstackBlog_backend.git
   cd FullstackBlog_backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## Running the Server

To start the server, run the following command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

The server will start running at [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)

### Backend


- Create the following endpoints for the posts resource:
- **GET /posts:** Retrieve all posts.
- **GET /posts/:id** Retrieve a single post by ID.
- **POST /posts:** Create a new post.
- **PUT /posts/:id** Update an existing post by ID.
- **DELETE /posts/:id:** Delete a post by ID

# Backend API

### GET /posts

##### Description: Retrieve all posts.

##### Response: A JSON array of all posts

### GET /posts/postId

##### Description: Retrieve a single post by ID.

##### Response: A JSON object of the post.

### POST /posts

##### Description: Create a new post.

##### Request Body: JSON object with post fields.

##### Response: The newly created post as a JSON object.

### PUT /posts/postId

##### Description: Update an existing post by ID.

##### Request Body: JSON object with post fields.

##### Response: The updated post as a JSON object.

### DELETE /posts/postId

##### Description: Delete a post by ID.

##### Response: A success message or the deleted post as a JSON object.

## API Documentation

The API endpoints are documented.Here’s how to access it:

## Configuration

Environment-specific configurations are set in `.env` file. This file is not available.

Create a new `.env` file, you may add the following variable the `DATABASE_URL` and `PORT` values.

## Database

We use [Neon](https://console.neon.tech/) with postgresql.

Set the following queries in [Neon](https://console.neon.tech/).

- CREATE TABLE posts (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  author VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  title VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  content VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  cover VARCHAR(510) NOT NULL,
  date TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
  );

- DROP TABLE IF EXISTS posts;

## Backend

- Set up a Node.js server using the built-in http module in package.json.
  `"type": "module",`

- The pg package connect your PostgreSQL database.
  Variable db , create new instance Pool. Poll coming from pg.
  - db test database connection on startup. Print `"connected db"` if client is connected or `"error db", err.message` if connection do not work.

## Dependencies

- [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) is a fast, minimalist web framework for Node.js that simplifies building APIs and web applications.
- [Dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) is a Node.js package that loads environment variables from a .env file into process.env for secure configuration management.
- [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) is a PostgreSQL client for Node.js that enables seamless interaction with PostgreSQL databases using JavaScript.

# Project Resources

- [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/)
- [The HTTP module](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/nodejs_http.asp)
- [Connecting to a Database](https://www.mongodb.com/de-de/lp/cloud/atlas/try4?utm_source=google&utm_campaign=search_gs_pl_evergreen_atlas_general_prosp-nbnon_gic-null_emea-de_ps-all_desktop_deu_lead&utm_term=datenbankverwaltungssystem&utm_medium=cpc_paid_search&utm_ad=p&utm_ad_campaign_id=20985229573&adgroup=156968602223&cq_cmp=20985229573&gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQiA2oW-BhC2ARIsADSIAWrwnUOL63cM-gkObt1ompuLqyqqanDpoQraGjsPKjr1hOkusCgz6UAaAtWqEALw_wcB)
- [pg Package Documentation](https://node-postgres.com/)
